<small>

**RENware ALPHA-REN System**
 
*(c) 2021 REN CONSULTING SOFT ACTIVITY SRL. RESTRICTED only for project internal use*
</small>

# Channels 
<small>

Product 0000-0156 0.0 to current version 

* 210730 me new doc 
* 210731 me last update 
</small> 

------
## Channels overview 

A channel is a **request endpoint** from outside world.  

Channels can use multiple standard protocols, such as: REST, AMQP, HL7, IBM MQ, JSON RPC, SOAP, Web Sockets, File Transfer protocols, and others. 

A channel at request will invoke an existing service. 

## REST channel definition 

For a *REST* channel, the following parameters must be provided: 

* Name
* URL path
* Data format
* Service
* Security definition

**Name** is the ARCLST name of the channel.

**URL path** is the address of channel endpoint. This is part of ARCLST route, ie `ARCLST_path.../URL_path`.

**Data format** is the format of data that will be exchanged through this channel. Usual (for REST channels at least) is to specify here *JSON*. 

**Service** is the name of the service that will be called when channel is invoked.

**Security** represents the security domain that will be applied to this channel.

Other parameters could also be specified here, for example if there are supplementary parameters (like those with ? after the route), header info (for out channels) and so on.

### Invoking the channel 

General form of invoking path will be:    `http://<user>:<password>@ARCLST_path:11223/URL_path`. 

The request is normally made thru load balancer (port 11223). The password is those defined at security domain definition. 

***NOTE:*** *The first slash (/) from URL path is part of was entered in definition and not is automatically appended. This will allow for combining channels*.